BEP: 9
Title: Extension for Peers to Send Metadata Files
Version: $Revision$
Last-Modified: $Date$
Author:  Greg Hazel <greg@bittorrent.com>, Arvid Norberg <arvid@bittorrent.com>
Status:  Draft
Type:    Standards Track
Created: 31-Jan-2008
Post-History:

The purpose of this extension is to allow clients to join a swarm and
complete a download without the need of downloading a .torrent file
first. This extension instead allows clients to download the metadata
from peers. It makes it possible to support *magnet links*, a link
on a web page only containing enough information to join the swarm
(the info hash).

metadata
========

This extension only transfers the info-dictionary part of the .torrent
file. This part can be validated by the info-hash. In this document, that
part of the .torrent file is referred to as *the metadata*.

The metadata is handled in blocks of 16KiB (16384 Bytes). The metadata blocks
are indexed starting at 0. All blocks are 16KiB except the last block which may
be smaller.

extension header
================

The metadata extension uses the extension protocol (specified in `BEP 0010`_
) to advertize its existence. It adds the "ut_metadata" entry to the "m"
dictionary in the extension header hand-shake message. This identifies the
message code used for this message. It also adds "metadata_size" to the
handshake message (not the "m" dictionary) specifying an integer value of the
number of bytes of the metadata.

Example extension handshake message::

{'m': {'ut_metadata', 3}, 'metadata_size': 31235}


extension message
=================

The extension messages are bencoded. There are 3 different kinds of messages:

0. request
1. data
2. reject

The bencoded messages have a key "msg_type" which value is an integer
corresponding to the type of message. They also have a key "piece", which
indicates which part of the metadata this message refers to.

request
-------

The ``request`` message does not have any additional keys in the dictionary.
The response to this message, from a peer supporting the extension, is either
a ``reject`` or a ``data`` message. The response MUST have the same ``piece``
as the request did.

A peer MUST verify that any piece it sends passes the info-hash verification.
i.e. until the peer has the entire metadata, it cannot run SHA-1 to verify that
it yields the same hash as the info-hash. Peers that do not have the entire
metadata MUST respond with a ``reject`` message to any metadata request.

Example::

	{'msg_type': 0, 'piece': 0}
	d8:msg_typei0e5:piecei0ee

That request message requests the first metadata piece.

data
----

The ``data`` message adds another entry to the dictionary, "total_size". This
key has the same semantics as the "metadata_size" in the extension header. This
is an integer.

The metadata piece is appended to the bencoded dictionary, it is not a part of
the dictionary, but it is a part of the message (the length prefix MUST include it).

If the piece is the last piece of the metadata, it may be less than 16kiB. If it
is not the last piece of the metadata, it MUST be 16kiB.

Example::

	{'msg_type': 1, 'piece': 0, 'total_size': 3425}
	d8:msg_typei1e5:piecei0e10:total_sizei34256eexxxxxxxx...

The ``x`` represents binary data (the metadata).

reject
------

The ``reject`` message does not have any additional keys in its message.
It SHOULD be interpreted as the peer does not have the piece of metadata
that was requested.

Clients MAY implement flood protection by rejecting ``request`` messages
after a certain number of them have been served. Typically the number of
pieces of metadata times a factor.

Example::

	{'msg_type': 2, 'piece': 0}
	d8:msg_typei1e5:piecei0ee

magnet URI format
=================

The magnet URI format is::

	magnet:?xt=urn:btih:<info-hash>&dn=<name>&tr=<tracker-url>

<info-hash>
	Is the info-hash encoded as `base32`_

``xt`` is the only mandatory parameter. ``dn`` is the display name that may be
used by the client to display while waiting for metadata. ``tr`` is a tracker
url, if there is one. If there are multiple trackers, multiple ``tr`` entries
may be included.

Both ``dn`` and ``tr`` are optional.

If no tracker is specified, the client SHOULD use the DHT (`BEP 0005`_) to acquire peers.

References
==========

.. _`base32`: http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3548.txt
.. _`BEP 0010`: http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0010.html
.. _`BEP 0005`: http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0005.html


Copyright
=========

This document has been placed in the public domain.


..
   Local Variables:
   mode: indented-text
   indent-tabs-mode: nil
   sentence-end-double-space: t
   fill-column: 70
   coding: utf-8
   End:
