html/beps/bep_0023.rst, before:

BEP: 23
Title: Tracker Returns Packed Peer Lists
Version: $Revision$
Last-Modified: $Date$
Author:  David Harrison <dave@bittorrent.com>
Status:  Accepted 
Type:    Standards track
Content-Type: text/x-rst
Created: 12-May-2008
Post-History: 


Abstract
========

To reduce the size of tracker responses and to reduce memory and
computational requirements in trackers, trackers may return
peers as a packed string rather than as a bencoded list.


Overview
========

In BitTorrent as described in BEP 3 [#BEP-3]_, peers wishing to
transfer a file contact a central tracker.  This tracker returns a
list of peers that are currently transferring the file.  The list of
peers is implemented as a list of bencoded dicts.  Each dict in the
list contains three fields: *peer id*, *ip*, and *port*.  The *peer
id* is 20 bytes plus 3 bytes bencoding overhead.  The *ip* is a string
containing a domain name or an IP address, and an integer port number.
The *ip* is variable length, but since in its longest form it is a
domain name it cannot exceed 255 bytes [#RFC-1034]_ plus 4 bytes
bencoding overhead.  Bencoded integers are also variable length but
since it is a port number, it cannot be more than 7 bytes including
bencoding overhead.  Thus,

::
  total peer list length in bytes < n * ( 23 + 259 + 7 )  

It is common now to use a packed format where each peer is represented
using only 6 bytes.  The first 4 bytes contain the 32-bit ipv4 address.
The remaining two bytes contain the port number.  Both address and port
use network-byte order.

The packed format uses the same *peers* key in the bencoded tracker
response, but the value is a bencoded string rather than a bencoded
list.

The peer id does not appear in the packed format.  The format has been
in use for years and the lack of a peer id has posed no problems.

This packed format is supported by BitTorrent mainline, Azureus,
libtorrent, uTorrent, and probably most other clients.


References
==========

.. [#BEP-3] BEP_0003. The BitTorrent Protocol Specification, Cohen
   (http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0003.html)

.. [#RFC-1034] RFC-1034. DOMAIN NAMES - CONCEPTS AND FACILITIES. Mockapetris,
   November 1987. (http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1034)

Copyright
=========

This document has been placed in the public domain.



..
   Local Variables:
   mode: indented-text
   indent-tabs-mode: nil
   sentence-end-double-space: t
   fill-column: 70
   coding: utf-8
   End:

Commit message:

packed --> compact.  Require compact=1 to return compact format.

html/beps/bep_0023.rst, after:

BEP: 23
Title: Tracker Returns Compact Peer Lists
Version: $Revision$
Last-Modified: $Date$
Author:  David Harrison <dave@bittorrent.com>
Status:  Accepted 
Type:    Standards track
Content-Type: text/x-rst
Created: 12-May-2008
Post-History: 


Abstract
========

To reduce the size of tracker responses and to reduce memory and
computational requirements in trackers, trackers may return
peers as a packed string rather than as a bencoded list.

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL
NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and
"OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
IETF RFC 2119 [#RFC-2119]_.


Overview
========

In BitTorrent as described in BEP 3 [#BEP-3]_, peers wishing to
transfer a file contact a central tracker.  This tracker returns a
list of peers that are currently transferring the file.  The list of
peers is implemented as a list of bencoded dicts.  Each dict in the
list contains three fields: *peer id*, *ip*, and *port*.  The *peer
id* is 20 bytes plus 3 bytes bencoding overhead.  The *ip* is a string
containing a domain name or an IP address, and an integer port number.
The *ip* is variable length, but since in its longest form it is a
domain name it cannot exceed 255 bytes [#RFC-1034]_ plus 4 bytes
bencoding overhead.  Bencoded integers are also variable length but
since it is a port number, it cannot be more than 7 bytes including
bencoding overhead.  Thus,

::

  total peer list length in bytes < n * ( 23 + 259 + 7 )  

It is common now to use a compact format where each peer is represented
using only 6 bytes.  The first 4 bytes contain the 32-bit ipv4 address.
The remaining two bytes contain the port number.  Both address and port
use network-byte order.

When the client's announce URL contains *compact=1* the tracker MAY
return the peers using compact format.  When *compact=0* or it is not
specified then the tracker MUST return using the original format
described in [#BEP-3]_.  For example, 

::

  GET /announce?peer_id=aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa&info_hash=aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  &port=6881&left=0&downloaded=100&uploaded=0&compact=1

The compact format uses the same *peers* key in the bencoded tracker
response, but the value is a bencoded string rather than a bencoded
list.

The peer id does not appear in the compact format.  The format has been
in use for years and the lack of a peer id has posed no problems.

This compact format is supported by BitTorrent mainline, Azureus,
libtorrent, uTorrent, and probably most other clients.


References
==========

.. [#BEP-3] BEP_0003. The BitTorrent Protocol Specification, Cohen
   (http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0003.html)

.. [#RFC-1034] RFC-1034. DOMAIN NAMES - CONCEPTS AND FACILITIES. Mockapetris,
   November 1987. (http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1034)

.. [#RFC-2119] RFC-2119. (http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt)


Copyright
=========

This document has been placed in the public domain.



..
   Local Variables:
   mode: indented-text
   indent-tabs-mode: nil
   sentence-end-double-space: t
   fill-column: 70
   coding: utf-8
   End:
