html/beps/bep_0000.rst, before:

:BEP: 0
:Title: Index of BitTorrent Enhancement Proposals 
:Version: $Revision$
:Last-Modified: $Date$
:Author:  David Harrison <dave@bittorrent.com>
:Status:  Active
:Type:    Process
:Created: 10-Jan-2008
:Post-History:

The BitTorrent Community Forum coordinates the development of the
BitTorrent protocol suite and its reference implementation. It is the
wish of Bram Cohen that the BitTorrent mainline python implementation
remain open source and that the protocol development process be
modelled after the Python Enhancement Proposal (PEP) process [#python]_.

This document indexes all BitTorrent Enhancement Proposals (BEPs).
When a new proposal is submitted, one of the BitTorrent.org editors
assigns a BEP number and updates this index appropriately.  Each
document has a number that never changes and the history of the
document is maintained in subversion [#svn]_.
  
.. role:: raw-html(raw)
   :format: html

Final and Active Process BEPs
-----------------------------

======     ===================  
Num        Title              
======     ===================
|0|        :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0000.html">Index of BitTorrent Enhancement Proporsals </A>`
|1|        :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0001.html">The BEP Process</A>`
|2|        :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0002.html">Sample reStructured Text BEP Template</A>`
|3|        :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0003.html">The BitTorrent Protocol Specification</A>`
|4|        :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0004.html">Known Number Allocations </A>`
|20|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0020.html">Peer ID Conventions</A>`
|1000|     :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_1000.html">Pending Standards Track Documents</A>`
======     ===================

Accepted BEPs
-------------

These BEPs describe mechanisms that have been deployed in one or more BitTorrent 
implementations and have proven useful.  They may require minor revisions.
They await the blessing of the BDFL before they can be considered Final.

======     ===================  
Num        Title              
======     ===================
|9|        :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0009.html">Extension for Peers to Send Metadata Files </A>`
|23|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0023.html">Tracker Returns Compact Peer Lists</A>`
======     ===================

Draft BEPs
-----------

The following BEPs are under consideration for standardization.

======     ===================  
Num        Title              
======     ===================
|5|        :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0005.html">DHT Protocol </A>`
|6|        :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0006.html">Fast Extension </A>`
|7|        :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0007.html">IPv6 Tracker Extension   </A>`
|10|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0010.html">Extension Protocol </A>`
|12|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0012.html">Multitracker Metadata Extension</A>`
|15|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0015.html">UDP Tracker Protocol</A>`
|16|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0016.html">Superseeding</A>`
|17|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0017.html">HTTP Seeding (Hoffman-style) </A>`
|18|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0018.html">Search Engine Specification</A>`
|19|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0019.html">HTTP/FTP Seeding (GetRight-style) </A>`
|21|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0021.html">Extension for Partial Seeds</A>`
|22|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0022.html">BitTorrent Local Tracker Discovery Protocol</A>`
|24|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0024.html">Tracker Returns External IP</A>`
|26|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0026.html">Zeroconf Peer Advertising and Discovery</A>`
|27|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0027.html">Private Torrents</A>`
|28|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0028.html">Tracker exchange</A>`
|29|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0029.html">uTorrent transport protocol</A>`
|30|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0030.html">Merkle tree torrent extension</A>`
|31|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0031.html">Tracker Failure Retry Extension</A>`
|32|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0032.html">IPv6 extension for DHT</A>`
|33|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0033.html">DHT scrape</A>`
|34|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0034.html">DNS Tracker Preferences</A>`
|35|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0035.html">Torrent Signing</A>`
|36|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0036.html">Torrent RSS feeds</A>`
======     ===================


Deferred BEPs 
-------------

The editor(s) deem that the following BEPs are not progressing toward standardization, 
but they have not yet been withdrawn.

======     ===================  
Num        Title              
======     ===================
|8|        :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0008.html">Tracker Peer Obfuscation </A>`
======     ===================


Withdrawn BEPs
--------------

At this time, no BEPs have been withdrawn.


Rejected BEPs
-------------

At this time, no BEPs have been rejected.

.. [#python] http://www.python.org/dev/peps/
.. [#svn] http://bittorrent.org/trac
.. |0| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0000.html">0</A>`
.. |1| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0001.html">1</A>`
.. |2| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0002.html">2</A>`
.. |3| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0003.html">3</A>`
.. |4| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0004.html">4</A>`
.. |5| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0005.html">5</A>`
.. |6| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0006.html">6</A>`
.. |7| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0007.html">7</A>`
.. |8| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0008.html">8</A>`
.. |9| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0009.html">9</A>`
.. |10| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0010.html">10</A>`
.. |12| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0012.html">12</A>`
.. |15| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0015.html">15</A>`
.. |16| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0016.html">16</A>`
.. |17| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0017.html">17</A>`
.. |18| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0018.html">18</A>`
.. |19| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0019.html">19</A>`
.. |20| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0020.html">20</A>`
.. |21| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0021.html">21</A>`
.. |22| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0022.html">22</A>`
.. |23| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0023.html">23</A>`
.. |24| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0024.html">24</A>`
.. |26| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0026.html">26</A>`
.. |27| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0027.html">27</A>`
.. |28| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0028.html">28</A>`
.. |29| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0029.html">29</A>`
.. |30| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0030.html">30</A>`
.. |31| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0031.html">31</A>`
.. |32| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0032.html">32</A>`
.. |33| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0033.html">33</A>`
.. |34| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0034.html">34</A>`
.. |35| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0035.html">35</A>`
.. |36| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0035.html">36</A>`
.. |1000| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_1000.html">1000</A>`

Commit message:

update repository link to point to git instead of outdated subversion

html/beps/bep_0000.rst, after:

:BEP: 0
:Title: Index of BitTorrent Enhancement Proposals 
:Version: $Revision$
:Last-Modified: $Date$
:Author:  David Harrison <dave@bittorrent.com>
:Status:  Active
:Type:    Process
:Created: 10-Jan-2008
:Post-History: Oct 13, 2012: updated link to document repository

The BitTorrent Community Forum coordinates the development of the
BitTorrent protocol suite and its reference implementation. It is the
wish of Bram Cohen that the BitTorrent mainline python implementation
remain open source and that the protocol development process be
modelled after the Python Enhancement Proposal (PEP) process [#python]_.

This document indexes all BitTorrent Enhancement Proposals (BEPs).
When a new proposal is submitted, one of the BitTorrent.org editors
assigns a BEP number and updates this index appropriately.  Each
document has a number that never changes and the history of the
document is maintained in git [#git]_.
  
.. role:: raw-html(raw)
   :format: html

Final and Active Process BEPs
-----------------------------

======     ===================  
Num        Title              
======     ===================
|0|        :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0000.html">Index of BitTorrent Enhancement Proporsals </A>`
|1|        :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0001.html">The BEP Process</A>`
|2|        :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0002.html">Sample reStructured Text BEP Template</A>`
|3|        :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0003.html">The BitTorrent Protocol Specification</A>`
|4|        :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0004.html">Known Number Allocations </A>`
|20|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0020.html">Peer ID Conventions</A>`
|1000|     :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_1000.html">Pending Standards Track Documents</A>`
======     ===================

Accepted BEPs
-------------

These BEPs describe mechanisms that have been deployed in one or more BitTorrent 
implementations and have proven useful.  They may require minor revisions.
They await the blessing of the BDFL before they can be considered Final.

======     ===================  
Num        Title              
======     ===================
|9|        :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0009.html">Extension for Peers to Send Metadata Files </A>`
|23|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0023.html">Tracker Returns Compact Peer Lists</A>`
======     ===================

Draft BEPs
-----------

The following BEPs are under consideration for standardization.

======     ===================  
Num        Title              
======     ===================
|5|        :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0005.html">DHT Protocol </A>`
|6|        :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0006.html">Fast Extension </A>`
|7|        :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0007.html">IPv6 Tracker Extension   </A>`
|10|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0010.html">Extension Protocol </A>`
|12|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0012.html">Multitracker Metadata Extension</A>`
|15|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0015.html">UDP Tracker Protocol</A>`
|16|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0016.html">Superseeding</A>`
|17|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0017.html">HTTP Seeding (Hoffman-style) </A>`
|18|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0018.html">Search Engine Specification</A>`
|19|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0019.html">HTTP/FTP Seeding (GetRight-style) </A>`
|21|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0021.html">Extension for Partial Seeds</A>`
|22|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0022.html">BitTorrent Local Tracker Discovery Protocol</A>`
|24|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0024.html">Tracker Returns External IP</A>`
|26|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0026.html">Zeroconf Peer Advertising and Discovery</A>`
|27|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0027.html">Private Torrents</A>`
|28|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0028.html">Tracker exchange</A>`
|29|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0029.html">uTorrent transport protocol</A>`
|30|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0030.html">Merkle tree torrent extension</A>`
|31|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0031.html">Tracker Failure Retry Extension</A>`
|32|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0032.html">IPv6 extension for DHT</A>`
|33|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0033.html">DHT scrape</A>`
|34|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0034.html">DNS Tracker Preferences</A>`
|35|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0035.html">Torrent Signing</A>`
|36|       :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0036.html">Torrent RSS feeds</A>`
======     ===================


Deferred BEPs 
-------------

The editor(s) deem that the following BEPs are not progressing toward standardization, 
but they have not yet been withdrawn.

======     ===================  
Num        Title              
======     ===================
|8|        :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0008.html">Tracker Peer Obfuscation </A>`
======     ===================


Withdrawn BEPs
--------------

At this time, no BEPs have been withdrawn.


Rejected BEPs
-------------

At this time, no BEPs have been rejected.

.. [#python] http://www.python.org/dev/peps/
.. [#git] https://github.com/bittorrent/bittorrent.org
.. |0| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0000.html">0</A>`
.. |1| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0001.html">1</A>`
.. |2| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0002.html">2</A>`
.. |3| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0003.html">3</A>`
.. |4| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0004.html">4</A>`
.. |5| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0005.html">5</A>`
.. |6| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0006.html">6</A>`
.. |7| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0007.html">7</A>`
.. |8| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0008.html">8</A>`
.. |9| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0009.html">9</A>`
.. |10| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0010.html">10</A>`
.. |12| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0012.html">12</A>`
.. |15| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0015.html">15</A>`
.. |16| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0016.html">16</A>`
.. |17| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0017.html">17</A>`
.. |18| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0018.html">18</A>`
.. |19| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0019.html">19</A>`
.. |20| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0020.html">20</A>`
.. |21| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0021.html">21</A>`
.. |22| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0022.html">22</A>`
.. |23| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0023.html">23</A>`
.. |24| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0024.html">24</A>`
.. |26| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0026.html">26</A>`
.. |27| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0027.html">27</A>`
.. |28| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0028.html">28</A>`
.. |29| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0029.html">29</A>`
.. |30| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0030.html">30</A>`
.. |31| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0031.html">31</A>`
.. |32| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0032.html">32</A>`
.. |33| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0033.html">33</A>`
.. |34| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0034.html">34</A>`
.. |35| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0035.html">35</A>`
.. |36| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_0035.html">36</A>`
.. |1000| replace:: :raw-html:`<A HREF="bep_1000.html">1000</A>`
