html/beps/bep_0004.rst, before:

BEP: 4
Title: Assigned Numbers
Version: $Revision$
Last-Modified: $Date$
Author:  David Harrison <dave@bittorrent.com>
Status:  Active
Type:    Process
Created: 10-Jan-2008
Post-History:


This document describes the known bit allocations and message IDs for
the BitTorrent protocol.  To request a bit allocation contact
editor@bittorrent.org.  Contact the same address if you are aware of
any omissions.

Reserved Bit Allocations
========================

::

 reserved[0]
 0x80  Azureus Messaging Protocol

 reserved[5]
 0x10  LTEP (Libtorrent Extension Protocol)

 reserved[7]
 0x01  BitTorrent DHT
 0x04  suggest, haveall, havenone, reject request, and allow fast extensions

Reserved Message IDs
====================

::

 Core Protocol:
 0x00   choke
 0x01   unchoke
 0x02   interested
 0x03   not interested
 0x04   have
 0x05   bitfield
 0x06   request
 0x07   piece
 0x08   cancel

 DHT Extension:
 0x09   port

 Fast Extensions:
 0x0D   suggest
 0x0E   have all
 0x0F   have none
 0x10   reject request
 0x11   allowed fast

 Additional IDs used in deployed clients:
 0x14   LTEP Handshake (implemented in libtorrent, uTorrent,...)



..
   Local Variables:
   mode: indented-text
   indent-tabs-mode: nil
   sentence-end-double-space: t
   fill-column: 70
   coding: utf-8
   End:

Commit message:

Specify that BEP documents are in the public domain.

html/beps/bep_0004.rst, after:

BEP: 4
Title: Assigned Numbers
Version: $Revision$
Last-Modified: $Date$
Author:  David Harrison <dave@bittorrent.com>
Status:  Active
Type:    Process
Created: 10-Jan-2008
Post-History:


This document describes the known bit allocations and message IDs for
the BitTorrent protocol.  To request a bit allocation contact
editor@bittorrent.org.  Contact the same address if you are aware of
any omissions.

Reserved Bit Allocations
========================

::

 reserved[0]
 0x80  Azureus Messaging Protocol

 reserved[5]
 0x10  LTEP (Libtorrent Extension Protocol)

 reserved[7]
 0x01  BitTorrent DHT
 0x04  suggest, haveall, havenone, reject request, and allow fast extensions

Reserved Message IDs
====================

::

 Core Protocol:
 0x00   choke
 0x01   unchoke
 0x02   interested
 0x03   not interested
 0x04   have
 0x05   bitfield
 0x06   request
 0x07   piece
 0x08   cancel

 DHT Extension:
 0x09   port

 Fast Extensions:
 0x0D   suggest
 0x0E   have all
 0x0F   have none
 0x10   reject request
 0x11   allowed fast

 Additional IDs used in deployed clients:
 0x14   LTEP Handshake (implemented in libtorrent, uTorrent,...)

Copyright
=========

This document has been placed in the public domain.



..
   Local Variables:
   mode: indented-text
   indent-tabs-mode: nil
   sentence-end-double-space: t
   fill-column: 70
   coding: utf-8
   End:
