html/beps/bep_0027.rst, before:

BEP: 27
Title: Private Torrents
Version: $Revision$
Last-Modified: $Date$
Author:  David Harrison <dave@bittorrent.com>
Status:  Draft
Type:    Standards Track
Content-Type: text/x-rst
Created: 3-Aug-2008
Post-History: 

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL
NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and
"OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
IETF RFC 2119 [#RFC-2119]_.

A *private tracker* restricts access to the torrents it tracks.  A 
torrent with restricted access is called a *private torrent*.  To
promote sharing, private trackers often maintain statistics about
registered users and restrict access to certain or all torrents for
users that do not adequately upload.

When generating a metainfo file, users denote a torrent as private by
including the key-value pair "private=1" in the "info" dict of the
torrent's metainfo file [#BEP-3]_.

When a BitTorrent client obtains a metainfo file containing the
"private=1" key-value pair, it MUST ONLY announce itself to the
private tracker, and MUST ONLY initiate connections to peers returned
from the private tracker.

Rationale
=========

Private trackers deny admission to private torrents by refusing to
return peer lists.  Once an intruder peer has obtained the IP address
and port of a peer, regardless of the source, the intruder can
initiate a connection to that peer and trade pieces with the peer.
Once in the swarm, the intruder is granted equal treatment as all
other peers.

BitTorrent has currently four ways that a peer can learn of other
peers in a swarm:

* Trackers [#BEP-3]_,

* Distribute Hash Table (DHT) [#BEP-5]_,

* Peer EXchange (PEX) [#BEP-11]_,

* Local Service Discovery (LSD) [#BEP-14]_.

Announcing or exchanging peer information via any of these mechanisms
other than the private tracker subverts the tracker's access control.

Even though PEX only provides peer information to other peers already
in the swarm, if an intruder obtained or guessed the IP and port of a
peer already in a private torrent then exchanging peer information
with the intruder would provide the intruder with a full complement of
peers.


History
=======

Private torrents were first introduced in Azureus.

References
==========

.. [#BEP-3] BEP_0003.  The BitTorrent Protocol Specification, Cohen.
   http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0003.html

.. [#BEP-5] BEP_0005.  The DHT Protocol, Loewenstern.
   http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0005.html

.. [#BEP-11] BEP_0011.  Peer EXchange.  , .
   http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0011.html

.. [#BEP-14] BEP_0014.  Local Service Discovery. Harrison, Hazel.
   http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0014.html

.. [#RFC-2119] RFC-2119. http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt

Copyright
=========

This document has been placed in the public domain.



..
   Local Variables:
   mode: indented-text
   indent-tabs-mode: nil
   sentence-end-double-space: t
   fill-column: 70
   coding: utf-8
   End:

Commit message:

updated to include text requiring peer to drop connections when switching between swarms.

html/beps/bep_0027.rst, after:

BEP: 27
Title: Private Torrents
Version: $Revision$
Last-Modified: $Date$
Author:  David Harrison <dave@bittorrent.com>
Status:  Draft
Type:    Standards Track
Content-Type: text/x-rst
Created: 3-Aug-2008
Post-History: 

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL
NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and
"OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
IETF RFC 2119 [#RFC-2119]_.

A *private tracker* restricts access to the torrents it tracks.  A
torrent with restricted access is called a *private torrent*.  All
other torrents are *public torrents*.  To promote sharing, private
trackers often maintain statistics about registered users and restrict
access to certain or all torrents for users that do not adequately
upload.

When generating a metainfo file, users denote a torrent as private by
including the key-value pair "private=1" in the "info" dict of the
torrent's metainfo file [#BEP-3]_.

When a BitTorrent client obtains a metainfo file containing the
"private=1" key-value pair, it MUST ONLY announce itself to the
private tracker, and MUST ONLY initiate connections to peers returned
from the private tracker.

When multiple trackers appear in the *announce-list* in the metainfo
file of a private torrent (see multitracker extension in [#BEP-12]_),
each peer MUST use only one tracker at a time and only switch between
trackers when the current tracker fails.  When switching between
trackers, the peer MUST disconnect from all current peers and
reconnect only to those provided from the new tracker.

Rationale
=========

Private trackers deny admission to private torrents by refusing to
return peer lists.  Once an intruder peer has obtained the IP address
and port of a peer, regardless of the source, the intruder can
initiate a connection to that peer and trade pieces with the peer.
Once in the swarm, the intruder is granted equal treatment as all
other peers.

BitTorrent has currently four ways that a peer can learn of other
peers in a swarm:

* Trackers [#BEP-3]_,

* Distribute Hash Table (DHT) [#BEP-5]_,

* Peer EXchange (PEX) [#BEP-11]_,

* Local Service Discovery (LSD) [#BEP-14]_.

Announcing or exchanging peer information via any of these mechanisms
other than the private tracker subverts the tracker's access control.

Even though PEX only provides peer information to other peers already
in the swarm, if an intruder obtained or guessed the IP and port of a
peer already in a private torrent then exchanging peer information
with the intruder would provide the intruder with a full complement of
peers.

When a peer switches between trackers, the peer drops connections so
that it cannot become an ongoing bridge between peers granted access
from a private tracker and peers announcing to a public tracker.  This
partially mitigates the effect of an attacker modifying a metainfo
file's *announce-list* and redistributing the file, e.g., via a public
tracker web site.


History
=======

Private torrents were first introduced in Azureus.

References
==========

.. [#BEP-3] BEP_0003.  The BitTorrent Protocol Specification, Cohen.
   http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0003.html

.. [#BEP-5] BEP_0005.  The DHT Protocol, Loewenstern.
   http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0005.html

.. [#BEP-11] BEP_0011.  Peer EXchange.  , .
   http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0011.html

.. [#BEP-14] BEP_0014.  Local Service Discovery. Harrison, Hazel.
   http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0014.html

.. [#RFC-2119] RFC-2119. http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt

Copyright
=========

This document has been placed in the public domain.



..
   Local Variables:
   mode: indented-text
   indent-tabs-mode: nil
   sentence-end-double-space: t
   fill-column: 70
   coding: utf-8
   End:
