:BEP: 36
:Title: Torrent RSS feeds
:Version: $Revision$
:Last-Modified: $Date$
:Author:  Arvid Norberg <arvid@bittorrent.com>
:Status:  Draft
:Type:    Standards Track
:Created: 9-October-2012
:Post-History:

Abstract
========

It has become common practice to public RSS feeds linking to content by using torrent files. This BEP attempts to document and standardize how to format such RSS feeds.

Terminology
===========

For the purpose of the BEP, the term torrent link will be used to identify any kind of URL
identifying a torrent. This may be either and HTTP URL pointing to a .torrent file or
a magnet link identifying a torrent info-hash.

Client support
==============

This section will document which RSS formats currently are supported by bittorrent clients.

+-----------------------------+---------+--------+
| client                      | RSS 2.0 | Atom   |
+=============================+=========+========+
| uTorrent                    | Yes     | No     |
+-----------------------------+---------+--------+
| Azureus                     | Yes     | No     |
+-----------------------------+---------+--------+
| Deluge                      | Yes     | Yes    |
+-----------------------------+---------+--------+
| qBittorrent                 | Yes     | No     |
+-----------------------------+---------+--------+
| KTorrent                    | Yes     | Yes    |
+-----------------------------+---------+--------+
| libtorrent                  | Yes     | Yes    |
+-----------------------------+---------+--------+

RSS 2.0 are feeds based on the rss/channel/item tags.

Atom are feeds based on the feed/entry

The following table indicates which tags are supported for *items* in a feed. Only tags
that identify the torrent are included, since those are the key tags. The ``ttl`` tag is
used by the server to indicate how frequently subscribers should refresh the feed.

+-----------------------------+--------+-------------+-----------------+--------------+--------+-----------+--------+
| client                      | <ttl>  | <enclosure> | <media:content> | <media:hash> | <link> | <torrent> | <guid> |
+=============================+========+=============+=================+==============+========+===========+========+
| uTorrent                    | Yes    | Yes         | Yes             | Yes          | Yes    | Yes       | Yes    |
+-----------------------------+--------+-------------+-----------------+--------------+--------+-----------+--------+
| Azureus [3]                 | Yes    | Yes [1]     | No              | No           | Yes    | No        | No     |
+-----------------------------+--------+-------------+-----------------+--------------+--------+-----------+--------+
| Deluge [4]                  | Yes    | Yes [1]     | No              | No           | No     | No        | No     |
+-----------------------------+--------+-------------+-----------------+--------------+--------+-----------+--------+
| qBittorrent                 | No     | Yes [1]     | No              | No           | No     | No        | No     |
+-----------------------------+--------+-------------+-----------------+--------------+--------+-----------+--------+
| KTorrent                    | ?      | Yes [1]     | No              | No           | No     | No        | No     |
+-----------------------------+--------+-------------+-----------------+--------------+--------+-----------+--------+
| libtorrent                  | Yes    | Yes         | Yes             | No           | Yes    | No        | No     |
+-----------------------------+--------+-------------+-----------------+--------------+--------+-----------+--------+

[1] Does not support the ``length``-attribute
[2] Azureus tolerates HTML in descriptions, but strips mark-up
[3] Based on org.kmallan.azureus.rssfeed.Scheduler.java from http://azureus.sourceforge.net/plugin_details.php?plugin=rssfeed , version 1.3.6
[4] Uses YaRSS2 https://github.com/bendikro/deluge-yarss-plugin/blob/master/yarss2/lib/feedparser.py

By far the most well supported format for feeds among bittorrent clients are *RSS* (as opposed to Atom)
and the ``enclosure`` tag for torrent content.

enclosure
---------

The enclosure tag MUST have a ``type`` attribute set to "application/x-bittorrent" and
MUST store the torrent linke in a ``url`` attribute. It MAY have a ``length`` attribute,
which should indicate the size of the torrent's content in bytes.

Example::

	<enclosure type="application/x-bittorrent" length="12216320" url="http://featuredcontent.utorrent.com/torrents/WillisEarlBeal-BitTorrent.torrent"/>

media:content
-------------

The media content tag is really the "content" tag under the namespace ``http://search.yahoo.com/mrss/``. Most bittorrent
clients don't support XML namespaces in their generic form. Most clients that support the ``media:content`` tag
assume that the namespace is called ``media`` in the feed, and will not recognize the tag otherwise.

For more information see `the media RSS specification`_.

.. _`the media RSS specification`: http://search.yahoo.com/mrss/

The ``media::content`` tag includes metadata as attributes. The ones relevant to bittorrent clients are
``url`` which is the torrent link, and ``filesize`` which is the size of the torrent's content (in bytes).

Example::

	<media:content url="http://featuredcontent.utorrent.com/torrents/WillisEarlBeal-BitTorrent.torrent" fileSize="12216320"/>

media:hash
----------

The media hash tag provides the info hash of the torrent hex encoded.

Example::

	<media:hash algo="sha1"><8c056e06fbc16d2a2be79cefbf3e4ddc15396abe/media:hash>


link
----

The link tag contains the torrent link as its body.

Example::

	<link>http://featuredcontent.utorrent.com/torrents/WillisEarlBeal-BitTorrent.torrent</link>

torrent
-------

The torrent tag can be used instead of magnet links or to complement another tag which has
a torrent link in it. The torrent tag only provides two attributes; ``infohash`` and
``contentlength``. Which is supposed to be the hex encoded info-hash of the torrent and
the size of the torrent's content respectively.

Although uTorrent doesn't support any other tags, ``magneturi`` and ``filename`` typically
occur in this tag, containing the magnet link and name of the torrent respectively

Example::

	<torrent>
		<infohash>"8c056e06fbc16d2a2be79cefbf3e4ddc15396abe</infohash>
		<contentlength>600162597</contentlength>
	</torrent>

For more information, see the xmlns_.

.. _xmlns: http://xmlns.ezrss.it/0.1/

guid
----

Sometimes the torrent link is encoded as the GUID in RSS feeds.

Example::

	<guid>http://featuredcontent.utorrent.com/torrents/WillisEarlBeal-BitTorrent.torrent</guid>

Torrent RSS feeds
=================

The proposed standard RSS feed format for torrents is an RSS 2.0 feed using
the ``enclosure`` tag for torrent content.

The ``ttl`` tag SHOULD be supported and honored. The definition of the value
inside the ``ttl`` tag is the number of seconds to wait until the client should refresh
the feed the next time.

The ``enclosure`` tag MUST include a ``type`` attribute set to ``application/x-bittorrent``
and MUST include a ``url`` attribute containing the torrent link. Furthermore, it SHOULD, if
reasonably practical, contain a ``length`` attribute as well. The value of the ``length``
attribute indicates the size of the torrent's content, specified in number of bytes.

If an ``enclosure`` tag matching the above mentioned specifications, it SHOULD take priority
over any other tag found in the RSS ``item``.

The ``title`` tag SHOULD be used for the name of the torrent.

The ``description`` tag MAY be used for a description of the content. If a ``description`` tag
is available, it SHOULD NOT contain any markup. It should be plain text.

Clients often need to identify whether a torrent has already been downloaded or not just
by inspecting the ``item``. For this reason, RSS feeds SHOULD include a ``guid`` field.
If practical, the ``guid`` SHOULD be the info-hash of the torrent. That way, GUIDs
would match across different feeds.

Example::

	<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
	<rss version="2.0">
		<channel>
			<title>Featured content</title>
			<link>http://featuredcontent.utorrent.com/</link>
			<item>
				<title>WillisEarlBeal-BitTorrent</title>
				<description>
					The Principles of a Protagonist Bundle

					Chicago native Willis Earl Beal came from humble musical beginnings- he
					began as a street performer of sorts that was prone to leaving homemade
					novels, artwork and CD-Rs across America to promote his work, suggesting
					a desire to be heard. Thereafter, he relocated to Albuquerque, NM where
					he continued his practice of 'gifting' as he simultaneously recorded a
					set of songs on a discarded karaoke machine that would become Acousmatic
					Sorcery, his Hot Charity/XL Recordings debut.
				</description>
				<guid>e380a6c5ae0fb15f296d29964a56250780b05ad7</guid>
				<enclosure url="http://featuredcontent.utorrent.com/torrents/WillisEarlBeal-BitTorrent.torrent"
					length="168773863" type="application/x-bittorrent" />
			</item>
		</channel>
	</rss>

Copyright
=========

This document has been placed in the public domain.


..
   Local Variables:
   mode: indented-text
   indent-tabs-mode: nil
   sentence-end-double-space: t
   fill-column: 70
   coding: utf-8
   End:
