beps/bep_0048.rst, before:

:BEP: 48
:Title: Tracker Protocol Extension: Scrape
:Version: $Revision$
:Last-Modified: $Date$
:Author:  Jimmy Zelinskie <jimmyzelinskie@gmail.com>
:Status:  Draft
:Type:    Standards Track
:Content-Type: text/x-rst
:Created: 08-Sep-2016
:Post-History:


Abstract
--------

The original BitTorrent Protocol Specification (BEP 003) [#BEP_003]_ defines one exchange between a client and a tracker referred to as an Announce.
In order to build responsive user interfaces, clients desired an additional way to query metadata about Swarms in bulk.
The exchange that fetches this metadata for the clients is referred to as a Scrape.
It should be noted that Scrape exchanges have no effect on a peer's participating in a Swarm.


Implementation
--------------

As the UDP Tracker Protocol Specification (BEP 015) [#BEP_015]_ already defines the implementation of Scrape using the UDP protocol, the following will document the implementation for the HTTP Protocol.

Scrape Request
..............

In order for a client to create a Scrape request, it must first determine the HTTP URL for the Scrape endpoint.
This is done by locating the string ``announce`` in the Path section [#URL_Syntax]_ of the Announce URL and replacing it with the string ``scrape``.
Performing a Scrape request to URLs that are not determined by this method are outside of the scope of this specification.

A Scrape request contains no HTTP Body, but instead uses HTTP Query Parameters [#URL_Syntax]_ to encode its key-value pairs.
There is only one key, the ``info_hash`` key specified in BEP 003 [#BEP_003]_.
This key can be appended multiple times with different values for collecting data about multiple Swarms in one request.

Scrape Response
...............

A successful response is a bencoded dictionary containing one key-value pair: ``file`` paired with a dictionary of Swarm metadata.
This dictionary is keyed by infohash and yet another dictionary with the keys "complete", "incomplete", and "downloaded".
The values of these keys are integers with the number of active peers that have completed downloading, the number of active peers that have not completed downloading, and the number of peers that have ever completed downloading.
An unsuccessful response is the standard bencoded dictionary with a key "failure_reason" and a string value as described in BEP 003 [#BEP_003]_.


Example
........

Request:

::

  http://tracker/scrape?info_hash=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx&info_hash=yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy&info_hash=zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz

Response:

::

  d
    5:files
    d
      20:xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxd8:completei11e10:downloadedi13772e10:incompletei19e
      20:yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyd8:completei21e10:downloadedi206e10:incompletei20e
      20:zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzd8:completei14e10:downloadedi12191e10:incompletei9e
    e
  e

References
----------

.. [#BEP_003] BEP 0003. The BitTorrent Protocol Specification.
   (http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0003.html)

.. [#BEP_015] BEP 0015. UDP Tracker Protocol for BitTorrent.
   (http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0015.html)

Commit message:

bep0048: refocus response definition around fields

beps/bep_0048.rst, after:

:BEP: 48
:Title: Tracker Protocol Extension: Scrape
:Version: $Revision$
:Last-Modified: $Date$
:Author:  Jimmy Zelinskie <jimmyzelinskie@gmail.com>
:Status:  Draft
:Type:    Standards Track
:Content-Type: text/x-rst
:Created: 08-Sep-2016
:Post-History:


Abstract
--------

The original BitTorrent Protocol Specification (BEP 003) [#BEP_003]_ defines one exchange between a client and a tracker referred to as an Announce.
In order to build responsive user interfaces, clients desired an additional way to query metadata about Swarms in bulk.
The exchange that fetches this metadata for the clients is referred to as a Scrape.
It should be noted that Scrape exchanges have no effect on a peer's participating in a Swarm.


Implementation
--------------

As the UDP Tracker Protocol Specification (BEP 015) [#BEP_015]_ already defines the implementation of Scrape using the UDP protocol, the following will document the implementation for the HTTP Protocol.

Scrape Request
..............

In order for a client to create a Scrape request, it must first determine the HTTP URL for the Scrape endpoint.
This is done by locating the string ``announce`` in the Path section [#URL_Syntax]_ of the Announce URL and replacing it with the string ``scrape``.
Performing a Scrape request to URLs that are not determined by this method are outside of the scope of this specification.

A Scrape request contains no HTTP Body, but instead uses HTTP Query Parameters [#URL_Syntax]_ to encode its key-value pairs.
There is only one key, the ``info_hash`` key specified in BEP 003 [#BEP_003]_.
This key can be appended multiple times with different values for collecting data about multiple Swarms in one request.

Scrape Response
...............

The response to a successful request is a bencoded dictionary containing one key-value pair: the key ``files`` with the value being a dictionary of the 20-byte string representation of an infohash paired with a dictionary of Swarm metadata.
The fields found in the Swarm metadata dictionary are as follows:

complete
  The number of active peers that have completed downloading.

incomplete
  The number of active peers that have not completed downloading.

downloaded
  The number of peers that have ever completed downloading.

The response to an unsuccessful request is a bencoded dictionary with the key ``failure_reason`` and a string value as described in BEP 003 [#BEP_003]_.

Example
........

Request:

::

  http://tracker/scrape?info_hash=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx&info_hash=yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy&info_hash=zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz

Response:

::

  d
    5:files
    d
      20:xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxd8:completei11e10:downloadedi13772e10:incompletei19e
      20:yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyd8:completei21e10:downloadedi206e10:incompletei20e
      20:zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzd8:completei14e10:downloadedi12191e10:incompletei9e
    e
  e

References
----------

.. [#BEP_003] BEP 0003. The BitTorrent Protocol Specification.
   (http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0003.html)

.. [#BEP_015] BEP 0015. UDP Tracker Protocol for BitTorrent.
   (http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0015.html)
