beps/bep_dht_mutable_torrents.rst, before:

:BEP: ??
:Title: Decentralized Mutable Torrents
:Version: $Revision$
:Last-Modified: $Date$
:Author:  Luca Matteis <lmatteis@gmail.com>
:Status:  Draft
:Type:    Standards Track
:Content-Type: text/x-rst
:Created: 24-Jul-2016
:Post-History:


Abstract
========

This extension enables torrents to update based on data stored in the BitTorrent DHT [#BEP-44]_, rather than an HTTP server. The publisher has control over when the torrent is updated, and which content it contains, via mutable DHT items. It is similar to BEP 39 [#BEP-39]_, with the difference being that it uses the DHT to notify and be notified about updates of a torrent, hence should provide more decentralized capabilities to both publishers and consumers.

The intention is to allow publishers to serve content that might change over time in a more decentralized fashion. Consumers interested in publishers content only need to know their public key + optional salt. For instance, entities like Archive.org could publish their database dumps using decentralized mutable torrents, and benefit from not having to maintain a central HTTP feed server to notify consumers about updates.

Rationale
=========

BEP 39 [#BEP-39]_ allows to automatically update torrents based on HTTP URLs. With DHT storing capabilities [#BEP-44]_, we can implement similar functionality in a more decentralized fashion without resorting to central HTTP servers, and using features already present in the BitTorrent network (mainly DHT store).


Publishing content
==================

Publishers should issue a mutable ``put`` request to the DHT when they want to notify consumers about an update of a torrent. The value of the payload ``v`` is the 20 byte infohash of such torrent. Note that there is a 1-to-1 mapping between a mutable item and a torrent, hence a mutable torrent can only ever map to a single torrent.

For request and response details refer to BEP 44 [#BEP-44]_.

Consuming content
=================

Consumers issue a ``get`` request using the ID of the mutable torrent they are interested in downloading. Periodically polling such ID by issuing ``get`` requests to see whether the ``v`` property of the response has updated. If an update is found, the torrent can be updated using the new infohash.

Both publisher and consumer should periodically ``put`` the mutable items they have active to keep them alive in the DHT.

Magnet link
===========

``?xs=urn:btpk:[ Public Key (Hex) ]&s=[ Salt ]``

Reference implementation
========================

https://github.com/lmatteis/dmt


References
==========

.. [#BEP-44] BEP_0044. Storing arbitrary data in the DHT.
   (http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0044.html)

.. [#BEP-39] BEP_0039. Updating Torrents Via Feed URL.
   (http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0039.html)


Copyright
=========

This document has been placed in the public domain.



..
   Local Variables:
   mode: indented-text
   indent-tabs-mode: nil
   sentence-end-double-space: t
   fill-column: 70
   coding: utf-8
   End:

Commit message:

Added link to republish DHT algorithm and fixed linewrap.

beps/bep_dht_mutable_torrents.rst, after:

:BEP: ??
:Title: Decentralized Mutable Torrents
:Version: $Revision$
:Last-Modified: $Date$
:Author:  Luca Matteis <lmatteis@gmail.com>
:Status:  Draft
:Type:    Standards Track
:Content-Type: text/x-rst
:Created: 24-Jul-2016
:Post-History:


Abstract
========

This extension enables torrents to update based on data stored in the BitTorrent
DHT [#BEP-44]_, rather than an HTTP server. The publisher has control over when
the torrent is updated, and which content it contains, via mutable DHT items. It
is similar to BEP 39 [#BEP-39]_, with the difference being that it uses the DHT
to notify and be notified about updates of a torrent, hence should provide more
decentralized capabilities to both publishers and consumers.

The intention is to allow publishers to serve content that might change over
time in a more decentralized fashion. Consumers interested in publishers content
only need to know their public key + optional salt. For instance, entities like
Archive.org could publish their database dumps using decentralized mutable
torrents, and benefit from not having to maintain a central HTTP feed server to
notify consumers about updates.

Rationale
=========

BEP 39 [#BEP-39]_ allows to automatically update torrents based on HTTP URLs.
With DHT storing capabilities [#BEP-44]_, we can implement similar functionality
in a more decentralized fashion without resorting to central HTTP servers, and
using features already present in the BitTorrent network (mainly DHT store).


Publishing content
==================

Publishers should issue a mutable ``put`` request to the DHT when they want to
notify consumers about an update of a torrent. The value of the payload ``v`` is
the 20 byte infohash of such torrent. Note that there is a 1-to-1 mapping
between a mutable item and a torrent, hence a mutable torrent can only ever map
to a single torrent.

For request and response details refer to BEP 44 [#BEP-44]_.

Consuming content
=================

Consumers issue a ``get`` request using the ID of the mutable torrent they are
interested in downloading. Periodically polling such ID by issuing ``get``
requests to see whether the ``v`` property of the response has updated. If an
update is found, the torrent can be updated using the new infohash.

Both publisher and consumer should periodically ``put`` the mutable items they
have active to keep them alive in the DHT. For details on the republish
algorithm see [#BEP-44]_.

Magnet link
===========

``magnet:?xs=urn:btpk:[ Public Key (Hex) ]&s=[ Salt (URL encoded) ]``

Reference implementation
========================

https://github.com/lmatteis/dmt


References
==========

.. [#BEP-44] BEP_0044. Storing arbitrary data in the DHT.
   (http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0044.html)

.. [#BEP-39] BEP_0039. Updating Torrents Via Feed URL.
   (http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0039.html)


Copyright
=========

This document has been placed in the public domain.



..
   Local Variables:
   mode: indented-text
   indent-tabs-mode: nil
   sentence-end-double-space: t
   fill-column: 70
   coding: utf-8
   End:
