beps/bep_0046.rst, before:

:BEP: 46
:Title: Updating Torrents Via DHT Mutable Items
:Version: $Revision$
:Last-Modified: $Date$
:Author:  Luca Matteis <lmatteis@gmail.com>
:Status:  Draft
:Type:    Standards Track
:Content-Type: text/x-rst
:Created: 24-Jul-2016
:Post-History:


Abstract
========

This extension enables torrents to update based on data stored in the BitTorrent
DHT [#BEP-44]_, rather than an HTTP server. The publisher has control over when
the torrent is updated, and which content it contains, via mutable DHT items. It
is similar to BEP 39 [#BEP-39]_, with the difference being that it uses the DHT
to notify and be notified about updates of a torrent, hence should provide more
decentralized capabilities to both publishers and consumers.

The intention is to allow publishers to serve content that might change over
time in a more decentralized fashion. Consumers interested in the publisher's
content only need to know their public key + optional salt. For instance,
entities like Archive.org could publish their database dumps, and benefit from
not having to maintain a central HTTP feed server to notify consumers about
updates.

Rationale
=========

BEP 39 [#BEP-39]_ allows to automatically update torrents based on HTTP URLs.
With DHT storing capabilities [#BEP-44]_, we can implement similar functionality
in a more decentralized fashion without resorting to central HTTP servers, and
using features already present in the BitTorrent network (mainly DHT store).


Publishing content
==================

Publishers should issue a mutable ``put`` request when they want to notify
consumers about an update of a torrent. The value of the payload ``v`` contains
a dictionary with key ``ih`` (info hash) and value the 20 byte infohash of such
torrent. Note that there is a 1-to-1 mapping between a mutable DHT item and a
torrent.

.. parsed-literal::

  {
    ...
    "v": {
      "ih": "<20-byte infohash of target torrent>"
    }
  }

For request and response details refer to BEP 44 [#BEP-44]_.

Consuming content
=================

Consumers issue a ``get`` request using the target ID of the mutable item they
are interested in. Periodically polling such ID by issuing ``get`` requests to
see whether the ``v`` property of the response has updated. If an update is
found, the torrent can be updated using the infohash found in the response.

Both publisher and consumer should periodically ``put`` the mutable items they
have active to keep them alive in the DHT. For details on the republish
algorithm see [#BEP-44]_.

Magnet link
===========

``magnet:?xs=urn:btpk:[ Public Key (Hex) ]&s=[ Salt (Hex) ]``

Note that ``xs`` ("exact source") is used instead of ``xt``, and that the salt
``s`` is optional.

Test Vectors
============

test 1 (magnet to target ID)
----------------------------

public key (hex)::

  8543d3e6115f0f98c944077a4493dcd543e49c739fd998550a1f614ab36ed63e

**target ID** (hex)::

  cc3f9d90b572172053626f9980ce261a850d050b

test 2 (magnet to targetID, with salt)
--------------------------------------

public key (hex)::

  8543d3e6115f0f98c944077a4493dcd543e49c739fd998550a1f614ab36ed63e

salt (hex)::

  6e

**target ID** (hex)::

  59ee7c2cb9b4f7eb1986ee2d18fd2fdb8a56554f

Reference implementation
========================

https://github.com/lmatteis/dmt


References
==========

.. [#BEP-44] BEP_0044. Storing arbitrary data in the DHT.
   (http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0044.html)

.. [#BEP-39] BEP_0039. Updating Torrents Via Feed URL.
   (http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0039.html)


Copyright
=========

This document has been placed in the public domain.



..
   Local Variables:
   mode: indented-text
   indent-tabs-mode: nil
   sentence-end-double-space: t
   fill-column: 70
   coding: utf-8
   End:

Commit message:

many DHT entries can point to the same torrent

beps/bep_0046.rst, after:

:BEP: 46
:Title: Updating Torrents Via DHT Mutable Items
:Version: $Revision$
:Last-Modified: $Date$
:Author:  Luca Matteis <lmatteis@gmail.com>
:Status:  Draft
:Type:    Standards Track
:Content-Type: text/x-rst
:Created: 24-Jul-2016
:Post-History:


Abstract
========

This extension enables torrents to update based on data stored in the BitTorrent
DHT [#BEP-44]_, rather than an HTTP server. The publisher has control over when
the torrent is updated, and which content it contains, via mutable DHT items. It
is similar to BEP 39 [#BEP-39]_, with the difference being that it uses the DHT
to notify and be notified about updates of a torrent, hence should provide more
decentralized capabilities to both publishers and consumers.

The intention is to allow publishers to serve content that might change over
time in a more decentralized fashion. Consumers interested in the publisher's
content only need to know their public key + optional salt. For instance,
entities like Archive.org could publish their database dumps, and benefit from
not having to maintain a central HTTP feed server to notify consumers about
updates.

Rationale
=========

BEP 39 [#BEP-39]_ allows to automatically update torrents based on HTTP URLs.
With DHT storing capabilities [#BEP-44]_, we can implement similar functionality
in a more decentralized fashion without resorting to central HTTP servers, and
using features already present in the BitTorrent network (mainly DHT store).


Publishing content
==================

Publishers should issue a mutable ``put`` request when they want to notify
consumers about an update of a torrent. The value of the payload ``v`` contains
a dictionary with key ``ih`` (info hash) and value the 20 byte infohash of such
torrent. Note that while a DHT entry under a particular key maps to a single torrent
at any given moment, many different keys can point to the same torrent.

.. parsed-literal::

  {
    ...
    "v": {
      "ih": "<20-byte infohash of target torrent>"
    }
  }

For request and response details refer to BEP 44 [#BEP-44]_.

Consuming content
=================

Consumers issue a ``get`` request using the target ID of the mutable item they
are interested in. Periodically polling such ID by issuing ``get`` requests to
see whether the ``v`` property of the response has updated. If an update is
found, the torrent can be updated using the infohash found in the response.

Both publisher and consumer should periodically ``put`` the mutable items they
have active to keep them alive in the DHT. For details on the republish
algorithm see [#BEP-44]_.

Magnet link
===========

``magnet:?xs=urn:btpk:[ Public Key (Hex) ]&s=[ Salt (Hex) ]``

Note that ``xs`` ("exact source") is used instead of ``xt``, and that the salt
``s`` is optional.

Test Vectors
============

test 1 (magnet to target ID)
----------------------------

public key (hex)::

  8543d3e6115f0f98c944077a4493dcd543e49c739fd998550a1f614ab36ed63e

**target ID** (hex)::

  cc3f9d90b572172053626f9980ce261a850d050b

test 2 (magnet to targetID, with salt)
--------------------------------------

public key (hex)::

  8543d3e6115f0f98c944077a4493dcd543e49c739fd998550a1f614ab36ed63e

salt (hex)::

  6e

**target ID** (hex)::

  59ee7c2cb9b4f7eb1986ee2d18fd2fdb8a56554f

Reference implementation
========================

https://github.com/lmatteis/dmt


References
==========

.. [#BEP-44] BEP_0044. Storing arbitrary data in the DHT.
   (http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0044.html)

.. [#BEP-39] BEP_0039. Updating Torrents Via Feed URL.
   (http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0039.html)


Copyright
=========

This document has been placed in the public domain.



..
   Local Variables:
   mode: indented-text
   indent-tabs-mode: nil
   sentence-end-double-space: t
   fill-column: 70
   coding: utf-8
   End:
