:BEP: 56
:Title: Data compression extension
:Version: $Revision$
:Last-Modified: $Date$
:Author:  Alexander Ivanov <saiv46.dev+bep@gmail.com>
:Status:  Draft
:Type:    Standards Track
:Created: 31-Sep-2021
:Post-History: 

Data compression extension adds a capability for clients to negotiate
and use compression algorithms to improve bandwidth.


Rationale
=========
This extension would allow clients to download files faster, without
using file archivers. Since large files are often pre-compressed before
torrent creation, downloaders needs to keep both the archives
(for seeding) and uncompressed files (for own usage).

Most users prefer to remove such torrents, thus harming proper file
distribution. For example: Organizations using Bittorrent for software
distribution needs to have centralized storage for new customers, no
matter how many customers have the same software already.


Compression modes
===================
Extension provides two approaches (modes) to compression, which have
their own trade-offs, so choice between these should be made by clients
on per-torrent basis, using its metadata (properties like piece size).

With **by-piece compression** mode, client must compress each piece
individually, which lowers overall compression ratio but result can
be stored in cache and reused, probably providing more efficiency.
If the client is caching compressed pieces in memory, then it can be
decompressed when saving to disk or sending to peer, which not supports
compression. To reduce piece re-compression, client should raise
current algorithm's priority during handshake. This method has low
efficiency with pieces smaller than 4 MB.

Clients using **stream compression** mode instead compresses whole
data stream, so compression ratio should be higher. During handshake,
clients should lower or raise algorithm's priority depending on expected
factors that could impact compression efficiency and performance. This
method can introduce performance issues if used on thousands of
simultaneous connections.


Protocol Extension
==================

This extension uses the extension protocol [#BEP-10]_ to advertise
client capability regarding compression, as well as introducing a
new messages in the extension handshake:

.. parsed-literal::

    {
      m: {
        crequest: *<implementation-dependent message ID>*,
        cresponse: *<implementation-dependent message ID>*,
        cpiece: *<implementation-dependent message ID>*,
        ...
      },
      ...
    } 


The ```crequest``` message itself consists of the extension message header
and the following bencoded payload:

.. parsed-literal::
    
    {
      "algos": [
        [
          *<identifier (string)>*,
          *<bit-array, 1 byte (positive integer)>*
        ],
        ...
      ],
      "pref": <optional, index (integer)>
    }


Connecting client fills ```algos``` list with supported compression
algorithms, sorted by preference in descending order. Clients can adjust
preference based on compression speed/ratio, hardware acceleration support,
performance and other factors. This list can be empty.

```pref``` field specifies algorithm for compression preferred by client.

Flags in bit-array are defined as follows:

 ==== ===========================================
 Bit  when set
 ==== ===========================================
 0x01 supports stream mode for decompression
 0x02 supports piece mode for decompression
 0x04 (reserved)
 0x08 (reserved)
 0x10 supports stream mode for compression
 0x20 supports piece mode for compression
 0x40 (reserved)
 0x80 (reserved)
 ==== ===========================================


The ```cresponse``` message is send in response to ```crequest```, consists of
the extension message header and the following bencoded payload:

.. parsed-literal::
    
    {
      "recv": [
        *<identifier (string)>*,
        *<0x01 or 0x02 for stream/piece mode (positive integer)>*
      ],
      "send": [
        *<identifier (string)>*,
        *<0x10 0r 0x20 for stream/piece mode (positive integer)>*
      ],
      "resend": *<optional, boolean (positive integer)>*
    }


Receiving client select appropriate algorithms and compression modes and
sets ```recv``` and ```send``` fields, which also can be empty. After that
message compression must be enabled/disabled between two clients. Responding
client can ask requesting client to send new request by settings ```resend```
field is set to 1.

The ```cpiece``` has same contents as ```piece``` message, but payload is
compressed, in piece mode both types of messages can be used.

Connecting client can send ```crequest``` message at any point of time,
but should do that right after handshake. Responding client must respond
to that ```cresponse``` message, but also can send that message at any
point of time to disable compression or ask for new request.


Compression algorithm list
--------------------------

+-------------+-----------------------------+
| identifier  | compression algorithm       |
+=============+=============================+
| lz4         | LZ4                         |
+-------------+-----------------------------+
| density     | Chameleon (DENSITY library) |
+-------------+-----------------------------+
| zstd        | ZStandard                   |
+-------------+-----------------------------+

This is a list of known algorithms, to submit a allocation please
contact author of this specification.

References
==========

.. _`BEP 0010`: http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0010.html


Copyright
=========

This document has been placed in the public domain.


..
   Local Variables:
   mode: indented-text
   indent-tabs-mode: nil
   sentence-end-double-space: t
   fill-column: 70
   coding: utf-8
   End:
